README.md, before:

# Split, apply, combine

[![CI](https://github.com/JuliaData/SplitApplyCombine.jl/workflows/CI/badge.svg)](https://github.com/JuliaData/SplitApplyCombine.jl/actions?query=workflow%3ACI)
[![codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/JuliaData/SplitApplyCombine.jl/branch/master/graph/badge.svg)](https://codecov.io/gh/JuliaData/SplitApplyCombine.jl)
[![deps](https://juliahub.com/docs/SplitApplyCombine/deps.svg)](https://juliahub.com/ui/Packages/SplitApplyCombine/vbX6o?t=2)
[![version](https://juliahub.com/docs/SplitApplyCombine/version.svg)](https://juliahub.com/ui/Packages/SplitApplyCombine/vbX6o)
[![pkgeval](https://juliahub.com/docs/SplitApplyCombine/pkgeval.svg)](https://juliahub.com/ui/Packages/SplitApplyCombine/vbX6o)


*Strategies for nested data in Julia*

*SplitApplyCombine.jl* provides high-level, generic tools for manipulating data -
particularly focussing on data in nested containers. An emphasis is placed on ensuring
split-apply-combine strategies are easy to apply, and work reliably for arbitrary iterables
and in an optimized way with the data structures included in Julia's standard library.

The tools come in the form of high-level functions that operate on iterable or indexable
containers in an intuitive and simple way, extending Julia's in-built `map`, `reduce` and
`filter` commands to a wider range of operations. Just like these `Base` functions, the
functions here like `invert`, `group` and `innerjoin` are able to be overloaded and
optimized by users and the maintainers of other packages for their own, custom data
containers.

One side goal is to provide sufficient functionality to satisfy the need to manipulate
"relational" data (meaning tables and dataframes) with basic in-built Julia data containers
like `Vector`s of `NamedTuple`s and higher-level functions in a "standard" Julia style.
Pay particular to the `invert` family of functions, which effectively allows you to switch
between a "struct-of-arrays" and an "array-of-structs" interpretation of your data. I am
exploring the idea of using arrays of named tuples for a fast table package in another
package under development called
[MinimumViableTables](https://github.com/andyferris/MinimumViableTables.jl)), which adds
acceleration indexes but otherwise attempts to use a generic "native Julia" interface.

## Quick start

You can install the package by typing
`Pkg.add("SplitApplyCombine")` at the REPL.

Below are some simple examples of how a select subset of the tools can be used to split,
manipulate, and combine data. A complete API reference is included at the end of this
README.

```julia
julia> using SplitApplyCombine

julia> only([3]) # return the one-and-only element of the input (included in Julia 1.4)
3

julia> splitdims([1 2 3; 4 5 6]) # create nested arrays
3-element Array{Array{Int64,1},1}:
 [1, 4]
 [2, 5]
 [3, 6]

julia> combinedims([[1, 4], [2, 5], [3, 6]]) # flatten nested arrays
2×3 Array{Int64,2}:
 1  2  3
 4  5  6

 julia> invert([[1,2,3],[4,5,6]]) # invert the order of nesting
3-element Array{Array{Int64,1},1}:
 [1, 4]
 [2, 5]
 [3, 6]

julia> group(iseven, [1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10]) # split elements into groups
2-element Dictionary{Bool,Array{Int64,1}}
 false │ [1, 3, 5, 7, 9]
  true │ [2, 4, 6, 8, 10]

julia> groupreduce(iseven, +, 1:10) # like above, but performing reduction
2-element Dictionary{Bool,Int64}
 false │ 25
  true │ 30

julia> innerjoin(iseven, iseven, tuple, [1,2,3,4], [0,1,2]) # combine two datasets - related to SQL `inner join`
6-element Array{Tuple{Int64,Int64},1}:
 (1, 1)
 (2, 0)
 (2, 2)
 (3, 1)
 (4, 0)
 (4, 2)

julia> leftgroupjoin(iseven, iseven, tuple, [1,2,3,4], [0,1,2]) # efficient groupings from two datasets
Dict{Bool,Array{Tuple{Int64,Int64},1}} with 2 entries:
  false => Tuple{Int64,Int64}[(1, 1), (3, 1)]
  true  => Tuple{Int64,Int64}[(2, 0), (2, 2), (4, 0), (4, 2)]
```

## Tabular data

The primary interface for manipulating tabular data is the *relational algebra*. A
*relation* is typically defined as an (unordered) collection of (unique) (named) tuples. 
If relations are collections of rows, and tables are to be viewed as relations, then I
suggest that tables should be viewed as collections of rows (and in particular they should
iterate rows and return an entire row from `getindex`, if defined).

While simple, this already allows quite a bit of relational algebra to occur. One can then
`filter` rows of a table, `map` rows of a table (to project, rename or create columns), and
use `zip` and `product` iterables for more complex operations. The goal below will be to
discuss functions which work well for general iterables *and* will be useful for a table
that iterates rows. As a prototype to keep in mind for this work, I consider an 
`AbstractVector{<:NamedTuple}` to be a good model of (strongly-typed) a table/dataframe.
Specialized packages may provide convenient macro-based DSLs, a greater range of functions,
and implementations that focus on things such as out-of-core or distributed computing, more
flexible acceleration indexing, etc. Here I'm only considering the basic, bare-bones API
that may be extended and built upon by other packages.

## Notes

This package recently switched from using the dictionaries in `Base` to those in the
[*Dictionaries.jl*](https://github.com/andyferris/Dictionaries.jl) package, particularly
for the `group` family of functions.

# API reference

The package currently implements and exports `only`, `splitdims`, `splitdimsview`,
`combinedims`, `combinedimsview`, `mapmany`, `flatten`, `group`, `groupinds`, `groupview`,
`groupreduce`, `innerjoin` and `leftgroupjoin`, as well as the `@_` macro. Expect this list
to grow.

## Generic operations on collections

### `only(iter)`

Returns the single, one-and-only element of the collection `iter`. If it contains zero
elements or more than one element, an error is thrown.

#### Example:

```julia
julia> only([3])
3

julia> only([])
ERROR: ArgumentError: Collection must have exactly one element (input was empty)
Stacktrace:
 [1] only(::Array{Any,1}) at /home/ferris/.julia/v0.7/SAC/src/only.jl:4

julia> single([3, 10])
ERROR: ArgumentError: Collection must have exactly one element (input contained more than one element)
Stacktrace:
 [1] only(::Array{Int64,1}) at /home/ferris/.julia/v0.7/SAC/src/only.jl:10
```

### `splitdims(array, [dims])`

Split a multidimensional array into nested arrays of arrays, splitting the specified 
dimensions `dims` to the "outer" array, leaving the remaining dimension in the "inner"
array. By default, the last dimension is split into the outer array.

#### Examples:

```julia
julia> splitdims([1 2; 3 4])
2-element Array{Array{Int64,1},1}:
 [1, 3]
 [2, 4]

julia> splitdims([1 2; 3 4], 1)
2-element Array{Array{Int64,1},1}:
 [1, 2]
 [3, 4]
```

### `splitdimsview(array, [dims])`

Like `splitdimsview(array, dims)` except creating a lazy view of the nested struture.

### `combinedims(array)`

The inverse operation of `splitdims` - this will take a nested array of arrays, where 
each sub-array has the same dimensions, and combine them into a single, flattened array.

#### Example:

```julia
julia> combinedims([[1, 2], [3, 4]])
2×2 Array{Int64,2}:
 1  3
 2  4
```

### `combinedimsview(array)`

Like `combinedims(array)` except creating a lazy view of the flattened struture.

### `invert(a)`

Take a nested container `a` and return a container where the nesting is reversed, such that
`invert(a)[i][j] === a[j][i]`.

Currently implemented for combinations of `AbstractArray`, `Tuple` and `NamedTuple`. It is
planned to add `AbstractDict` in the future.

#### Examples:

```julia
julia> invert([[1,2,3],[4,5,6]]) # invert the order of nesting
3-element Array{Array{Int64,1},1}:
 [1, 4]
 [2, 5]
 [3, 6]

julia> invert((a = [1, 2, 3], b = [2.0, 4.0, 6.0])) # Works between different data types
3-element Array{NamedTuple{(:a, :b),Tuple{Int64,Float64}},1}:
 (a = 1, b = 2.0)
 (a = 2, b = 4.0)
 (a = 3, b = 6.0)
```

### `invert!(out, a)`

A mutating version of `invert`, which stores the result in `out`.

### `mapview(f, iter)`

Like `map`, but presents a view of the data contained in `iter`. The result may be wrapped in an
lazily-computed output container (generally attempting to preserve arrays as `AbstractArray`, and
so-on).

For immutable collections (like `Tuple` and `NamedTuple`), the operation may be performed eagerly.

#### Example:

```julia
julia> a = [1,2,3];

julia> b = mapview(iseven, a)
3-element MappedArray{Bool,1,typeof(iseven),Array{Int64,1}}:
 false
  true
 false

julia> a[1] = 2;

julia> b
3-element MappedArray{Bool,1,typeof(iseven),Array{Int64,1}}:
  true
  true
 false
```

### `mapmany(f, iters...)`

Like `map`, but `f(x...)` for each `x ∈ zip(iters...)` may return an arbitrary number of 
values to insert into the output.

#### Example:

```julia
julia> mapmany(x -> 1:x, [1,2,3])
6-element Array{Int64,1}:
 1
 1
 2
 1
 2
 3
```

(Note that, semantically, `filter` could be thought of as a special case of `mapmany`.)

### `flatten(a)`

Takes a collection of collections `a` and returns a collection containing all the elements
of the subcollecitons of `a`. Equivalent to `mapmany(identity, a)`.

#### Example:

```julia
julia> flatten([1:1, 1:2, 1:3])
6-element Array{Int64,1}:
 1
 1
 2
 1
 2
 3
```

### `product(f, a, b)`

Takes the Cartesian outer product of two containers and evaluates `f` on all pairings of
elements.

For example, if `a` and `b` are vectors, this returns a matrix `out` such that
`out[i,j] = f(a[i], b[j])` for `i in keys(a)` and `j in keys(b)`.

Note this interface differs slightly from `Iterators.product` where `f = tuple` is assumed.

#### Example:

```julia
julia> product(+, [1,2], [1,2,3])
2×3 Array{Int64,2}:
 2  3  4
 3  4  5
```

### `productview(f, a, b)`

Like `product`, but return a view of the Cartesian product of `a` and `b` where the output elements are `f`
evaluated with the corresponding of `a` and `b`.

#### Example

```julia
julia> productview(+, [1,2], [1,2,3])
2×3 ProductArray{Int64,2,typeof(+),Array{Int64,1},Array{Int64,1}}:
 2  3  4
 3  4  5
```

## Grouping

These operations help you split the elements of a collection according to an arbitrary
function which maps each element to a group key.

### `group([by = identity], [f = identity], iter)`

Group the elements `x` of the iterable `iter` into groups labeled by `by(x)`, transforming
each element . The default implementation creates a `Dictionaries.Dictionary` of
`Vector`s, but of course a table/dataframe package might extend this to return a suitable
(nested) structure of tables/dataframes.

Also a `group(by, f, iters...)` method exists for the case where multiple iterables of the
same length are provided.

#### Examples:
```julia
julia> group(iseven, [1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10])
2-element Dictionary{Bool,Array{Int64,1}}
 false │ [1, 3, 5, 7, 9]
  true │ [2, 4, 6, 8, 10]

julia> names = ["Andrew Smith", "John Smith", "Alice Baker", "Robert Baker",
                "Jane Smith", "Jason Bourne"]
6-element Array{String,1}:
 "Andrew Smith"
 "John Smith"
 "Alice Baker"
 "Robert Baker"
 "Jane Smith"
 "Jason Bourne"

julia> group(last, first, split.(names))
3-element Dictionary{SubString{String},Array{SubString{String},1}}
  "Smith" │ SubString{String}["Andrew", "John", "Jane"]
  "Baker" │ SubString{String}["Alice", "Robert"]
 "Bourne" │ SubString{String}["Jason"]
```

### `groupfind(by, container)`

For *indexable* collections `container`, returns the indices/keys associated with each group.

**NOTE: Recently renamed from `groupinds`.**

#### Example:

```julia
julia> groupfind(iseven, [3,4,2,6,5,8])
2-element Dictionary{Bool,Array{Int64,1}}
 false │ [1, 5]
  true │ [2, 3, 4, 6]

```

### `groupview(by, iter)`

Similar to `group(by, iter)` but the grouped elements are a view of the original collection.
Uses `groupinds` to construct the appropriate container.

#### Example:

```julia
julia> v = [3,4,2,6,5,8]
6-element Array{Int64,1}:
 3
 4
 2
 6
 5
 8

julia> groups = groupview(iseven, v)
2-element GroupDictionary{Bool,SubArray{Int64,1,Array{Int64,1},Tuple{Array{Int64,1}},false},Array{Int64,1},Dictionary{Bool,Array{Int64,1}}}
 false │ [3, 5]
  true │ [4, 2, 6, 8]

julia> groups[false][:] .= 99
2-element view(::Array{Int64,1}, [1, 5]) with eltype Int64:
 99
 99

julia> v
6-element Array{Int64,1}:
 99
  4
  2
  6
 99
  8
```

### `groupreduce(by, [f = identity], op, iter...; [init])`

Applies a `mapreduce`-like operation on the groupings labeled by passing the elements of
`iter` through `by`. Mostly equivalent to `map(g -> reduce(op, g; init=init), group(by, f, iter))`,
but designed to be more efficient. If multiple collections (of the same length) are
provided, the transformations `by` and `f` occur elementwise.

We also export `groupcount`, `groupsum` and `groupprod` as special cases of the above, to determine
the number of elements per group, their sum, and their product, respectively.

#### Examples:
```julia
julia> groupreduce(iseven, +, 1:10)
Dictionary{Bool,Int64} with 2 entries:
  false │ 25
  true  │ 30

julia> groupcount(iseven, 1:10)
Dictionary{Bool,Int64} with 2 entries:
  false │ 5
  true  │ 5
```


## Joining

### `innerjoin([lkey = identity], [rkey = identity], [f = tuple], [comparison = isequal], left, right)`

Performs a relational-style join operation between iterables `left` and `right`, returning
a collection of elements `f(l, r)` for which `comparison(lkey(l), rkey(r))` is `true` where
`l ∈ left`, `r ∈ right.`

#### Example:

```julia
julia> innerjoin(iseven, iseven, tuple, ==, [1,2,3,4], [0,1,2])
6-element Array{Tuple{Int64,Int64},1}:
 (1, 1)
 (2, 0)
 (2, 2)
 (3, 1)
 (4, 0)
 (4, 2)
```

### `leftgroupjoin([lkey = identity], [rkey = identity], [f = tuple], [comparison = isequal], left, right)`

Creates a collection if groups labelled by `lkey(l)` where each group contains elements
`f(l, r)` which satisfy `comparison(lkey(l), rkey(r))`. If there are no matches, the group
is still created (with an empty collection).

This operation shares similarities with an SQL left outer join, but is more similar to
LINQ's `GroupJoin`.

#### Example:

```julia
julia> leftgroupjoin(iseven, iseven, tuple, ==, [1,2,3,4], [0,1,2])
Dictionary{Bool,Array{Tuple{Int64,Int64},1}} with 2 entries:
  false │ Tuple{Int64,Int64}[(1, 1), (3, 1)]
  true  │ Tuple{Int64,Int64}[(2, 0), (2, 2), (4, 0), (4, 2)]
```

Commit message:

expand filterview() docs, add to README (#43)

README.md, after:

# Split, apply, combine

[![CI](https://github.com/JuliaData/SplitApplyCombine.jl/workflows/CI/badge.svg)](https://github.com/JuliaData/SplitApplyCombine.jl/actions?query=workflow%3ACI)
[![codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/JuliaData/SplitApplyCombine.jl/branch/master/graph/badge.svg)](https://codecov.io/gh/JuliaData/SplitApplyCombine.jl)
[![deps](https://juliahub.com/docs/SplitApplyCombine/deps.svg)](https://juliahub.com/ui/Packages/SplitApplyCombine/vbX6o?t=2)
[![version](https://juliahub.com/docs/SplitApplyCombine/version.svg)](https://juliahub.com/ui/Packages/SplitApplyCombine/vbX6o)
[![pkgeval](https://juliahub.com/docs/SplitApplyCombine/pkgeval.svg)](https://juliahub.com/ui/Packages/SplitApplyCombine/vbX6o)


*Strategies for nested data in Julia*

*SplitApplyCombine.jl* provides high-level, generic tools for manipulating data -
particularly focussing on data in nested containers. An emphasis is placed on ensuring
split-apply-combine strategies are easy to apply, and work reliably for arbitrary iterables
and in an optimized way with the data structures included in Julia's standard library.

The tools come in the form of high-level functions that operate on iterable or indexable
containers in an intuitive and simple way, extending Julia's in-built `map`, `reduce` and
`filter` commands to a wider range of operations. Just like these `Base` functions, the
functions here like `invert`, `group` and `innerjoin` are able to be overloaded and
optimized by users and the maintainers of other packages for their own, custom data
containers.

One side goal is to provide sufficient functionality to satisfy the need to manipulate
"relational" data (meaning tables and dataframes) with basic in-built Julia data containers
like `Vector`s of `NamedTuple`s and higher-level functions in a "standard" Julia style.
Pay particular to the `invert` family of functions, which effectively allows you to switch
between a "struct-of-arrays" and an "array-of-structs" interpretation of your data. I am
exploring the idea of using arrays of named tuples for a fast table package in another
package under development called
[MinimumViableTables](https://github.com/andyferris/MinimumViableTables.jl)), which adds
acceleration indexes but otherwise attempts to use a generic "native Julia" interface.

## Quick start

You can install the package by typing
`Pkg.add("SplitApplyCombine")` at the REPL.

Below are some simple examples of how a select subset of the tools can be used to split,
manipulate, and combine data. A complete API reference is included at the end of this
README.

```julia
julia> using SplitApplyCombine

julia> only([3]) # return the one-and-only element of the input (included in Julia 1.4)
3

julia> splitdims([1 2 3; 4 5 6]) # create nested arrays
3-element Array{Array{Int64,1},1}:
 [1, 4]
 [2, 5]
 [3, 6]

julia> combinedims([[1, 4], [2, 5], [3, 6]]) # flatten nested arrays
2×3 Array{Int64,2}:
 1  2  3
 4  5  6

 julia> invert([[1,2,3],[4,5,6]]) # invert the order of nesting
3-element Array{Array{Int64,1},1}:
 [1, 4]
 [2, 5]
 [3, 6]

julia> group(iseven, [1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10]) # split elements into groups
2-element Dictionary{Bool,Array{Int64,1}}
 false │ [1, 3, 5, 7, 9]
  true │ [2, 4, 6, 8, 10]

julia> groupreduce(iseven, +, 1:10) # like above, but performing reduction
2-element Dictionary{Bool,Int64}
 false │ 25
  true │ 30

julia> innerjoin(iseven, iseven, tuple, [1,2,3,4], [0,1,2]) # combine two datasets - related to SQL `inner join`
6-element Array{Tuple{Int64,Int64},1}:
 (1, 1)
 (2, 0)
 (2, 2)
 (3, 1)
 (4, 0)
 (4, 2)

julia> leftgroupjoin(iseven, iseven, tuple, [1,2,3,4], [0,1,2]) # efficient groupings from two datasets
Dict{Bool,Array{Tuple{Int64,Int64},1}} with 2 entries:
  false => Tuple{Int64,Int64}[(1, 1), (3, 1)]
  true  => Tuple{Int64,Int64}[(2, 0), (2, 2), (4, 0), (4, 2)]
```

## Tabular data

The primary interface for manipulating tabular data is the *relational algebra*. A
*relation* is typically defined as an (unordered) collection of (unique) (named) tuples. 
If relations are collections of rows, and tables are to be viewed as relations, then I
suggest that tables should be viewed as collections of rows (and in particular they should
iterate rows and return an entire row from `getindex`, if defined).

While simple, this already allows quite a bit of relational algebra to occur. One can then
`filter` rows of a table, `map` rows of a table (to project, rename or create columns), and
use `zip` and `product` iterables for more complex operations. The goal below will be to
discuss functions which work well for general iterables *and* will be useful for a table
that iterates rows. As a prototype to keep in mind for this work, I consider an 
`AbstractVector{<:NamedTuple}` to be a good model of (strongly-typed) a table/dataframe.
Specialized packages may provide convenient macro-based DSLs, a greater range of functions,
and implementations that focus on things such as out-of-core or distributed computing, more
flexible acceleration indexing, etc. Here I'm only considering the basic, bare-bones API
that may be extended and built upon by other packages.

## Notes

This package recently switched from using the dictionaries in `Base` to those in the
[*Dictionaries.jl*](https://github.com/andyferris/Dictionaries.jl) package, particularly
for the `group` family of functions.

# API reference

The package currently implements and exports `only`, `splitdims`, `splitdimsview`,
`combinedims`, `combinedimsview`, `mapview`, `filterview`, `mapmany`, `flatten`, `group`, `groupinds`, `groupview`,
`groupreduce`, `innerjoin` and `leftgroupjoin`, as well as the `@_` macro. Expect this list
to grow.

## Generic operations on collections

### `only(iter)`

Returns the single, one-and-only element of the collection `iter`. If it contains zero
elements or more than one element, an error is thrown.

#### Example:

```julia
julia> only([3])
3

julia> only([])
ERROR: ArgumentError: Collection must have exactly one element (input was empty)
Stacktrace:
 [1] only(::Array{Any,1}) at /home/ferris/.julia/v0.7/SAC/src/only.jl:4

julia> single([3, 10])
ERROR: ArgumentError: Collection must have exactly one element (input contained more than one element)
Stacktrace:
 [1] only(::Array{Int64,1}) at /home/ferris/.julia/v0.7/SAC/src/only.jl:10
```

### `splitdims(array, [dims])`

Split a multidimensional array into nested arrays of arrays, splitting the specified 
dimensions `dims` to the "outer" array, leaving the remaining dimension in the "inner"
array. By default, the last dimension is split into the outer array.

#### Examples:

```julia
julia> splitdims([1 2; 3 4])
2-element Array{Array{Int64,1},1}:
 [1, 3]
 [2, 4]

julia> splitdims([1 2; 3 4], 1)
2-element Array{Array{Int64,1},1}:
 [1, 2]
 [3, 4]
```

### `splitdimsview(array, [dims])`

Like `splitdimsview(array, dims)` except creating a lazy view of the nested struture.

### `combinedims(array)`

The inverse operation of `splitdims` - this will take a nested array of arrays, where 
each sub-array has the same dimensions, and combine them into a single, flattened array.

#### Example:

```julia
julia> combinedims([[1, 2], [3, 4]])
2×2 Array{Int64,2}:
 1  3
 2  4
```

### `combinedimsview(array)`

Like `combinedims(array)` except creating a lazy view of the flattened struture.

### `invert(a)`

Take a nested container `a` and return a container where the nesting is reversed, such that
`invert(a)[i][j] === a[j][i]`.

Currently implemented for combinations of `AbstractArray`, `Tuple` and `NamedTuple`. It is
planned to add `AbstractDict` in the future.

#### Examples:

```julia
julia> invert([[1,2,3],[4,5,6]]) # invert the order of nesting
3-element Array{Array{Int64,1},1}:
 [1, 4]
 [2, 5]
 [3, 6]

julia> invert((a = [1, 2, 3], b = [2.0, 4.0, 6.0])) # Works between different data types
3-element Array{NamedTuple{(:a, :b),Tuple{Int64,Float64}},1}:
 (a = 1, b = 2.0)
 (a = 2, b = 4.0)
 (a = 3, b = 6.0)
```

### `invert!(out, a)`

A mutating version of `invert`, which stores the result in `out`.

### `mapview(f, iter)`

Like `map`, but presents a view of the data contained in `iter`. The result may be wrapped in an
lazily-computed output container (generally attempting to preserve arrays as `AbstractArray`, and
so-on).

For immutable collections (like `Tuple` and `NamedTuple`), the operation may be performed eagerly.

#### Example:

```julia
julia> a = [1,2,3];

julia> b = mapview(iseven, a)
3-element MappedArray{Bool,1,typeof(iseven),Array{Int64,1}}:
 false
  true
 false

julia> a[1] = 2;

julia> b
3-element MappedArray{Bool,1,typeof(iseven),Array{Int64,1}}:
  true
  true
 false
```

### `filterview(f, arr)`

Like `filter`, but presents a view of the data contained in `arr`. Data in `arr` is not copied, and modifications to the resulting view are propagated to the original array.

#### Example:

```julia
julia> a = [1, 2, 3];

julia> b = filterview(isodd, a)
2-element view(::Vector{Int64}, [1, 3]) with eltype Int64:
 1
 3

julia> b[2] = 10;

julia> a
3-element Vector{Int64}:
  1
  2
 10

julia> b
2-element view(::Vector{Int64}, [1, 3]) with eltype Int64:
  1
 10
```

### `mapmany(f, iters...)`

Like `map`, but `f(x...)` for each `x ∈ zip(iters...)` may return an arbitrary number of 
values to insert into the output.

#### Example:

```julia
julia> mapmany(x -> 1:x, [1,2,3])
6-element Array{Int64,1}:
 1
 1
 2
 1
 2
 3
```

(Note that, semantically, `filter` could be thought of as a special case of `mapmany`.)

### `flatten(a)`

Takes a collection of collections `a` and returns a collection containing all the elements
of the subcollecitons of `a`. Equivalent to `mapmany(identity, a)`.

#### Example:

```julia
julia> flatten([1:1, 1:2, 1:3])
6-element Array{Int64,1}:
 1
 1
 2
 1
 2
 3
```

### `product(f, a, b)`

Takes the Cartesian outer product of two containers and evaluates `f` on all pairings of
elements.

For example, if `a` and `b` are vectors, this returns a matrix `out` such that
`out[i,j] = f(a[i], b[j])` for `i in keys(a)` and `j in keys(b)`.

Note this interface differs slightly from `Iterators.product` where `f = tuple` is assumed.

#### Example:

```julia
julia> product(+, [1,2], [1,2,3])
2×3 Array{Int64,2}:
 2  3  4
 3  4  5
```

### `productview(f, a, b)`

Like `product`, but return a view of the Cartesian product of `a` and `b` where the output elements are `f`
evaluated with the corresponding of `a` and `b`.

#### Example

```julia
julia> productview(+, [1,2], [1,2,3])
2×3 ProductArray{Int64,2,typeof(+),Array{Int64,1},Array{Int64,1}}:
 2  3  4
 3  4  5
```

## Grouping

These operations help you split the elements of a collection according to an arbitrary
function which maps each element to a group key.

### `group([by = identity], [f = identity], iter)`

Group the elements `x` of the iterable `iter` into groups labeled by `by(x)`, transforming
each element . The default implementation creates a `Dictionaries.Dictionary` of
`Vector`s, but of course a table/dataframe package might extend this to return a suitable
(nested) structure of tables/dataframes.

Also a `group(by, f, iters...)` method exists for the case where multiple iterables of the
same length are provided.

#### Examples:
```julia
julia> group(iseven, [1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10])
2-element Dictionary{Bool,Array{Int64,1}}
 false │ [1, 3, 5, 7, 9]
  true │ [2, 4, 6, 8, 10]

julia> names = ["Andrew Smith", "John Smith", "Alice Baker", "Robert Baker",
                "Jane Smith", "Jason Bourne"]
6-element Array{String,1}:
 "Andrew Smith"
 "John Smith"
 "Alice Baker"
 "Robert Baker"
 "Jane Smith"
 "Jason Bourne"

julia> group(last, first, split.(names))
3-element Dictionary{SubString{String},Array{SubString{String},1}}
  "Smith" │ SubString{String}["Andrew", "John", "Jane"]
  "Baker" │ SubString{String}["Alice", "Robert"]
 "Bourne" │ SubString{String}["Jason"]
```

### `groupfind(by, container)`

For *indexable* collections `container`, returns the indices/keys associated with each group.

**NOTE: Recently renamed from `groupinds`.**

#### Example:

```julia
julia> groupfind(iseven, [3,4,2,6,5,8])
2-element Dictionary{Bool,Array{Int64,1}}
 false │ [1, 5]
  true │ [2, 3, 4, 6]

```

### `groupview(by, iter)`

Similar to `group(by, iter)` but the grouped elements are a view of the original collection.
Uses `groupinds` to construct the appropriate container.

#### Example:

```julia
julia> v = [3,4,2,6,5,8]
6-element Array{Int64,1}:
 3
 4
 2
 6
 5
 8

julia> groups = groupview(iseven, v)
2-element GroupDictionary{Bool,SubArray{Int64,1,Array{Int64,1},Tuple{Array{Int64,1}},false},Array{Int64,1},Dictionary{Bool,Array{Int64,1}}}
 false │ [3, 5]
  true │ [4, 2, 6, 8]

julia> groups[false][:] .= 99
2-element view(::Array{Int64,1}, [1, 5]) with eltype Int64:
 99
 99

julia> v
6-element Array{Int64,1}:
 99
  4
  2
  6
 99
  8
```

### `groupreduce(by, [f = identity], op, iter...; [init])`

Applies a `mapreduce`-like operation on the groupings labeled by passing the elements of
`iter` through `by`. Mostly equivalent to `map(g -> reduce(op, g; init=init), group(by, f, iter))`,
but designed to be more efficient. If multiple collections (of the same length) are
provided, the transformations `by` and `f` occur elementwise.

We also export `groupcount`, `groupsum` and `groupprod` as special cases of the above, to determine
the number of elements per group, their sum, and their product, respectively.

#### Examples:
```julia
julia> groupreduce(iseven, +, 1:10)
Dictionary{Bool,Int64} with 2 entries:
  false │ 25
  true  │ 30

julia> groupcount(iseven, 1:10)
Dictionary{Bool,Int64} with 2 entries:
  false │ 5
  true  │ 5
```


## Joining

### `innerjoin([lkey = identity], [rkey = identity], [f = tuple], [comparison = isequal], left, right)`

Performs a relational-style join operation between iterables `left` and `right`, returning
a collection of elements `f(l, r)` for which `comparison(lkey(l), rkey(r))` is `true` where
`l ∈ left`, `r ∈ right.`

#### Example:

```julia
julia> innerjoin(iseven, iseven, tuple, ==, [1,2,3,4], [0,1,2])
6-element Array{Tuple{Int64,Int64},1}:
 (1, 1)
 (2, 0)
 (2, 2)
 (3, 1)
 (4, 0)
 (4, 2)
```

### `leftgroupjoin([lkey = identity], [rkey = identity], [f = tuple], [comparison = isequal], left, right)`

Creates a collection if groups labelled by `lkey(l)` where each group contains elements
`f(l, r)` which satisfy `comparison(lkey(l), rkey(r))`. If there are no matches, the group
is still created (with an empty collection).

This operation shares similarities with an SQL left outer join, but is more similar to
LINQ's `GroupJoin`.

#### Example:

```julia
julia> leftgroupjoin(iseven, iseven, tuple, ==, [1,2,3,4], [0,1,2])
Dictionary{Bool,Array{Tuple{Int64,Int64},1}} with 2 entries:
  false │ Tuple{Int64,Int64}[(1, 1), (3, 1)]
  true  │ Tuple{Int64,Int64}[(2, 0), (2, 2), (4, 0), (4, 2)]
```
